Hello again you marvelous Gato.
People in this video let's make a game over screen.
We need a lose condition for our game and we want a screen that tells the player the game is over.
And do you want to play again.
First thing we need to do is text when Bunny falls too far.
This is gonna be the first way the player can lose.
Right if you fall down too far if you fall off the edge of the world your game is over.
Then we need a game overseen.
Right we don't want to just quit the game.
We have some feedback to the players on this says game over and a button says try again.
Then we need to function to get from level 1 or whatever level we're on to game over.
And we also want to function to get back.
So let's start by detecting when Bunny falls too far.
So here I am and got first thing I do I want to open the play a scene because I want to be using that
note in a moment and let's open the play script.
Now let's go back to 2D view and just talk this through.
I'll never won when Bunny falls a certain level down.
We want this to trigger.
Right.
I'm gonna start by setting a constant limit called World limit and it's a constant someone writing capitals
just to remind me.
And this is going to be let's say 3000.
What does that mean.
It means 3000 pixels.
I'm going to measure Bunny's position on the y axis and remember in two dimensions positive y is down
not up.
Okay.
So we have world limit and we're already applying gravity and it feels like a good place to put it.
So I'm going to put right here if well I need to measure Bonnie's position.
How do I get that.
Let's look at the note and under no two days on the transform you'll see this position right here.
If I mouse over it the property I want is position all lowercase so I can use that.
Let's go back to script position.
Well I want just the vertical position right.
So position dot Y is greater than Weld limit.
It's there it is Weld limit.
So what it's gonna do is just check is the position greater than 3000.
I don't want to just write 3000 here.
I want to use a constant so that when I see these numbers I know what I'm measuring.
Okay.
So we need a new function.
I'm gonna call this end game and now it's going a little warning.
You're calling a function doesn't exist.
Not a problem.
Let's make it right here.
Line 51 or functional end game.
Okay.
So I want a way of testing this.
If I just do pass on the full of the world's going to call this function but nothing will happen.
Right.
So here we go.
We don't know if it worked well.
Let's do this.
Get tree so we can say go to the whole tree.
And as a function we can use here Quint which does exactly what you might think.
So if we're detecting this boom I should go a little further and that could mean let's say 4000
K better.
That very abrupt so clearly quits is going to work.
But it's a good starting point or at this point we want to make the game over screen and that's a brand
new scene.
And this going to be a user interface seeing something to click here and it's gonna give us control
node.
The first thing to do is rename this to end game.
OK.
Next thing on to do is make this the full screen.
So let's put this at a full rectangle anchor and a full rect layout so the whole Goonies take up the
whole space.
I also want some sort of background which needs a texture rect.
I mean like this nice and simple.
I mean the graphics the background I'm going to use the background.
Now one big solid color I could actually use a solid color if you wanted to you could remake the parallax
background and then give it a little script to gently scrolls the side.
But I'm happy with just a simple color.
Good would expand on full rect.
So now it'll take up this.
So when I press play it'll say oh no save the scene yet to save it on two levels and game.
You know what that's a silly name it's called Game Over much but a name.
OK.
So now in a Save this as game over in levels that shouldn't be a capital V chase that they're that we're
tidy up my typing.
La la la la la.
For now when I press play scene rather than play game it's just gonna play the seamer in here's a nice
big blue screen and when I resize this no matter what size this is it'll always fill it up.
Fantastic.
Now this screen could be various different sizes and I want to game over to be right here.
In fact you know let's make this visible with a pencil.
Let's take up small space
and get my pen out and what I'm looking for is game over in nice big letters roughly in the center right.
There's always wants to be here a little what size the screen is underneath.
I'm going to have a little bunny and try again now because this is going to be of different sizes.
I need a way of making sure that's calculating these positions in real time.
Luckily there are some nodes we can use for that specifically if we get a game over and we look under
control and he kept us texting looking to control.
There's a couple of container nodes we can use.
I'm going to start with a center container and we're going to use every child in this container is gonna
be kept in the center.
This note if I get a layout and I go full rectangle I make sure I've anchored it to the full rectangle
just in case.
Now any child of this will be in the center.
Then I can put another container.
Another way of organizing child nodes and I only use vertical box v box container.
And what this is gonna do is gonna organize all the children of it vertically and I can start with a
simple label and I'm gonna give it a custom font so custom font is gonna be a new dynamic font.
There we go.
Click on that to give me the settings click on font.
Just like we did for looney lips his candles or TTL.
Which is a nice bubbly font.
I also want this nice and big I must say.
Would you think 128.
Let's see it looks like okay.
White on light blue.
Terrible choice but not a problem we can fix that.
Let's go to custom colors which is underneath custom fonts and just enable black.
Yeah that looks pretty good.
Also to use a filter to get rid of all the jagged lines nice and smooth could probably make it bigger
if we wanted.
I mean 256 is a bit much.
Let's take a look this way big.
So a hundred twenty eight is good enough now and there's lots of other things you can do now.
Now you'll notice a change back to 128 and game over is now off center.
This is because God gooey elements as user interface elements don't always refresh.
Actually it's going to be calculated right but if you get that go off screen and come back and it's
fine.
Okay so we have the game over label underneath with this.
I want a button and another label but this isn't gonna be a normal button that's gonna be a texture
button.
It's going to look like a Bunny's head.
So I'm gonna have two horizontal elements to do that.
As a child of the box container I want
each box container horizontal box container.
And in this I'll put another label
and a texture button.
Great.
You'll notice we can't see any of these because I have two blank elements on a start with a label and
right.
Try again and once again after a custom font let's make a new dynamic font.
Click the dynamic font and we'll load it in so click on font drag candles into font data will make it
a little bit bigger.
When you think 64 64 is pretty good.
Colors terrible though so it's got a custom color.
Make that black.
OK so we have try again.
I also have a button here and if I go to textures you'll see a whole bunch of models.
The only one I really want is normal.
Let's go into graphics on the HUD.
Heads up display.
I got life's you should say lives and always his life's fine and there's money all right.
Now I've got to H box container you see alignment begin I got split alignment center alignment and you
put it in the center.
Yeah.
Now if I want the bottle on the left all I have to do is change the all of these around so I could put
the texture button above the label just by dragging it there and it's done because all these containers
take then the same tree order to calculate things.
So for example on the button above.
Game over.
I can take the box container and just drag it above the label just here.
Right.
This is a great way of visually figuring out where you want everything to put that back for now.
How many this button.
A better name
and that's looking pretty good.
We could also make this a little bit bigger but I'm actually came with us for now.
Let's take a look with this scene looks like right.
Got a button.
This is a button.
It's just not doing anything.
And a nice little game over there.
So now we need a script right.
This needs to do something.
So I'm going to put a scripting game over new scripts.
Let's just make it empty lives here is called Game Over.
Yeah that's good to go.
Great.
Awesome.
What I want to do is make the script react when Game Over is pressed so to do that I just need to get
a node and connect pressed connect that to game over.
So now we press the button.
It's going to tell it's gonna do something right and send a signal because Lebanon is sending a signal
but that signal isn't doing.
Thanks a here's my challenge for you.
I'd like you to have the try again button load level one now quick hint we did this in Looney lips right.
We change scenes in learning apps a seeing figure of how to do it.
Look at the documentation.
I'll give you a clue it's under get tree.
Don't worry if you can't remember it's not a problem but pulls a video give it a shot when you're ready
come back and I'll show you my solution
Welcome back.
OK.
So the answer here is I'm going to use get a tree right.
That's going to affect the entire tree.
Dot change scene and then you see the path and easiest way to get the path is to go to the levels.
Level 1 I'm sure.
Drag that in the Okay so how do we know that's worked.
Well let's play the scene on its own.
Here's my button pressed the button level started to fall off the edge of the world quit the scene.
So now I need to connect that.
Let's go back to play G.D. to see the exact same thing.
Get tree change scene.
And this time I'm going to chase scene to game over.
Okay so now I play the game.
So I could jump high I can play a game I can fail the game I get to game over screen and I can reload
the level.
Perfect.
Exactly what we wanted in this video.
We've looked at creating a game over screen.
We've introduced container nodes specifically sent a container the box container and each box container.
They're really useful there's a couple of others we look at later in the course but they're really great
ways of organizing everything no matter what the screen size is.
So excellent work.
And I'll see you in the next video.